welcome back to movie recap today we're
going to be talking about a science
fiction thriller film called
predestination be ready for some
spoilers ahead
we are introduced to our main character
with no name we'll call him the agent
for now he arrives in the factory to
disarm a bomb he hears someone moving
behind him and takes out his gun they
get into a gunfight which wastes
precious time needed to disarm the bomb
he tries to contain the explosion but it
burns his face and disfigures him
horrendously another man walks towards
him and hands him his suitcase which he
then uses to vanish he goes through
facial reconstruction while his agency
gives him the medal of honor informing
him that the next mission will be his
last he contemplates about the fizzle
bomber a terrorist who he never was able
to apprehend in march 1975
he will destroy a city and kills tens
and thousands of people the doctor
unveils his new face which he comments
that even his own mother would not
recognize his vocal cords have also been
shortened changing his voice
after he heals completely he gets ready
for his final mission
he appears in the bar and sees another
man sit down he pours the man a drink as
the bartender the man's name is john and
he's a writer of women's confession
stories which our main character seems
to read the agent questions how he can
write these stories from a woman's angle
to which john replies that he would be
shocked if he knew why the agent bets
john a full bottle of alcohol if he's
impressed with jon's story to which john
happily agrees jon starts the story by
saying when he was a little girl which
shocks the agent but he tells jon to
continue when jon was a baby he was
found on the front steps of an orphanage
they named her jane when jane was
growing up she felt different from the
other girls she was fascinated by sex
and how the bodies all work together she
always got into fights but she's always
one she was much stronger than other
girls and sometimes even the boys she
was very intelligent as well and aced
all her exams one day when she was all
grown up she met mr robertson who
enlisted her as a candidate for the
space program she excelled in the exams
and surpassed all the girls over there
the only problem was she didn't get
along with anyone which resulted in a
fight with another girl and got her
expelled she took on odd jobs and
studying where she met another man who
she fell in love with he treated her
with a kindness that no one has before
but one day while sitting in the park he
tells her to wait for him and never came
back she became pregnant with the man's
child and gives birth to a baby girl but
the doctor tells her a news that she
couldn't believe apparently she has two
sets of functioning sexual organs male
and female her female organs were
damaged in the birthing process and the
doctors had to remove it they
reconstructed her male organs and she
must now live on as a man she names her
baby jane as she knows that she must
change her own name now that she's a man
soon after the baby was kidnapped and
they never found her whereabouts she
stopped looking at herself in the mirror
as she becomes someone she doesn't
recognize anymore
jon tells the agent that this is the
reason why he can write his stories from
a woman's perspective because he used to
be one the agent looks at him seriously
and asks john what would he do if he
found the man that left him to which
john replies he would kill him in a
heartbeat the agent then reveals that he
actually knows who john is and he also
knows where that man is as well he tells
jon that he can bring jon to that man
and kill him without getting caught he
also reveals that he's working with mr
robertson and that he wants john to work
for him he convinces jon to follow him
into the basement he shows john a
violent suitcase but in reality it's a
device that creates a temporal wake in
other words a time machine the agent
sets its destination to 1963 and walks
towards john while he's still in
disbelief the two grabs onto the device
and vanishes they appear again in a
different location while jon is
hyperventilating from the stress of time
travel he explains that he works for the
temporal bureau whose objective is to
prevent crimes from happening they
suspect that the man john wants to kill
is in fact the fizzlebomber and this
would be a test for whether if jon can
become a temporal agent they need to
keep their time disruption small and
cannot travel more than 53 years from
zero point which is when time traveling
was invented before the agent leaves jon
asks him if this job is lonely which the
agent agrees but he tells john that more
than anything he will have a purpose
john goes to the school where jane will
meet the man for the first time he bumps
into her by accident and they begin a
conversation soon he realizes what he
said to jane was exactly what the man he
met before have said to him therefore
making himself that man
the agent watches both of them from afar
as he completes his mission he
contemplates about his last chance of
stopping the fizzle bomber and
disobeying the time bureau he sets the
destination for 1970 and arrives minutes
before he was disfigured by the
explosion he finds the bomber setting up
the bomb in the factory and tries to
apprehend him they fight in dim lights
where the agent was unable to identify
the bomber they are evenly matched but
the bomber gets an upper hand after a
long battle and knocks the agent
unconscious he gets up and finds his
prior self burning and disfigured the
agent hence his prior self the time
machine while the man looks up and
teleports away the agent goes to 1964
and meets mr roberson where he tells him
that he has made an illegal jump to try
and arrest the fizzlebomber but failed
regardless he tells robertson that he
will complete his final mission and
accept the punishment by the time bureau
the agent goes on to kidnap baby jane
from the hospital and brings her to the
orphanage in
he removes her text so that no one will
know where she came from meanwhile john
and jane fell in love just like it was
supposed to happen they sit in the car
while sharing a kiss
the agent caused the orphanage to let
them know of jane's arrival then
teleports back to 1963 but three months
after dropping off jon in the past he
waits for giant in the park as jon turns
around and sees him jon tells jane to
wait for him to come back and leaves
jon points a gun at the agent and is
angry that he tricked him into falling
in love with jane the agent explains
that some things are inevitable and
reveals who he really is to john he
takes john to the time bureau where
he'll work with robertson as a new
temporal agent
robertson doesn't punish the agent for
his infraction but instead congratulates
him for his retirement roberson talks
about how important the fisa bomber is
to the time bureau even though he's a
terrorist the agent says that it almost
sounds like robertson admires the
criminal that he's supposed to capture
roberson gives an envelope of the new
details for the fizzle bomber and the
agent teleports to his last destination
a little while before the fizzle
bomber's largest explosion which kills
tens of thousands the agent arrives and
tries to decommission his time machine
but surprisingly an error code shows up
he tries to live in retirement even
buying a typewriter and begins writing
about confession stories like he used to
however the fizzle bomber keeps on
returning to his mind while he looks
through all the new leads of the
criminal he is able to eventually track
down the bomber and decides to pay him a
last visit
he arrives at the laundry place and
points a gun at the terrorist the bomber
turns around and turns out to be an
older version of the agent himself
the bomber justifies his killing by
stating how many lives he saved because
he killed the people that would have
otherwise caused more deaths he tries to
convince the agent that he did the right
thing while the agent swears that he
will never become the bomber the agent's
older self says that robertson was the
one who set up their paradox and he was
the one who created the bomber on
purpose the bomber tells him that the
only way for the agent to not become him
is if he doesn't kill his older self but
that also means more people will die as
a result the agent chooses to kill the
bomber but this also means that he will
eventually become the terrorist since
his philosophy of killing one to save
more lives is identical to the bombers
meanwhile jon prepares for his first
mission and we find out what the agent
told him that night in the park it turns
out the agent is none other than the
future version of john who eventually
becomes the fizzlebomber
so what do you guys think about this
movie let me know in the comments below
and if you like my videos please press
like and subscribe for more i'll see you
guys next time
you